This symposium is about sharing the good news of peace.
What it privilege it is to help humble people find peace with Jehovah.
At Ephesians 6.15, and describing our Christians' complete suit of arm,
it mentions our feet.
Now, back at that time, thinking of Roman soldiers, Paul knew that often they marched
for hundreds of miles on Roman highways, crisscrossing the empire.
So at Ephesians 6.15, he said this,
having your feet shod in readiness, in readiness to declare the good news of peace.
Yes, ready to share the good news of peace on every suitable occasion.
In this symposium, we'll discuss five ways to remain ready to preach and teach.
We'd first like to discuss why it's important to maintain your zeal.
Now, as an analogy, zeal has often been linked to fire.
We even use expression, don't we?
He has a fiery zeal for his beliefs.
Well, what does a fiery zeal indicate?
Please find Romans 1, 14, and 15, and here it does not actually use the word zeal,
but the sense of the word is evident.
You see, we're on fire, we're stoked up, we are ready.
Did you find it?
Romans 1, 14, and 15.
Both to Greeks and to foreigners, both to wise and to senseless ones,
I am a debtor.
So I am eager.
You see, ready with fiery zeal, eager to declare the good news.
Celicy evangelizers are eager to declare the good news.
They're on fire.
They want others to find peace with Jehovah.
But is there something that can dampen that flame?
Something that could even extinguish the eager desire,
the readiness to find those who even unknowingly yearn for peace?
Yes, it can be difficult to remain eager with fiery zeal
when we face such problems as an unresponsive territory,
criticism, or outright opposition to the work.
And then there are the pressures of daily life.
Those issues can also be likened to a fire,
to destructive fires, like the wildfires that have
plagued the western part of the United States year after year.
Those problems can threaten our zeal and enthusiasm.
So what can we do?
Well, there's an English expression that originates with firefighters.
The expression is to fight fire with fire.
In the path of a raging wildfire, one technique is to ignite a controlled fire.
That controlled fire consumes combustible materials.
So when the wildfire advances to that point,
there's no fuel left and the wildfire goes out.
Fight fire with fire.
Keep your zeal for the ministry burning brightly.
And now please find 1st November the 416.
If our zeal fades, the flame smolders,
we might miss out on opportunities to help others to gain life,
a life of peace with God.
Look at 1st November the 416 with me.
It says, pay constant attention to yourself and to your teaching.
You see, the flame, the temperature, pay attention to your zeal and teaching.
It says, persevere in these things.
For by doing this, you'll say both yourself and those who listen to you.
Yes, share the good news of peace with zeal.
Now in the following video, note how a couple realized that the flame had gone out.
They still had some glowing embers left.
But they now find a way to fan the coals and regain their fiery zeal.
I don't remember when our routine service day became so...
Well, routine, our zeal wasn't what it used to be.
We're finally starting to notice.
Not everyone wants to listen.
We just didn't want to be the reason.
It didn't take much research to find great ideas and set a few simple goals.
Like working with those who encourage us,
with biota and ami, we're always talking about how we can reach the heart.
We got back to basics.
Be friendly.
Listen.
Let the conversation progress naturally.
Try to share an appealing scriptural thought and keep trying.
Our zeal can attract an honest person to the truth.
In the video, what wildfires or problems did the couple face that sucked the oxygen out of their
ministry? Well, the four we mentioned earlier, it seems the couple's zeal was waning because of
seemingly unresponsive territory.
And as tired as the husband looked in that first scene, the pressures of daily life
might have been having a toll on him.
So how did they come to realize they needed to fight fire with fire?
Do you remember their kitchen table talk?
The husband mused that not everyone wants to listen.
But then he added, we just didn't want to be the reason.
You see, the reason for them not listening.
They decided to fight fire with fire.
They reignited their own controlled fire of zeal to counteract the problems they were succumbing to.
Well, what were some of the techniques they used?
The first was to pray to Jehovah.
Could it be the husband borrowed the words of Romans 12-11 in this prayer?
Yes, he may have asked Jehovah to help him as a couple to be a glow with the spirit.
Do you remember he said earlier, I don't remember when our routine service day became so,
well, routine, fight the wildfire by again becoming a glow with the spirit.
And sure that any lack of response is not due to our lack luster.
Well, what else did you notice they did to rekindle their zeal?
They did some research, looking for suggestions to invigorate their ministry.
Yes, and regular Bible study helps us to remember why we endure and the disciple making work.
For example, review Jesus' attitude toward the ministry.
The apostles bold witnessing despite fiery opposition.
The disposition of Paul, Aquila and Priscilla, Stephen and other Bible characters.
These can infuse us with similar zeal.
Next, keep your ministry fresh.
Well, what does that mean?
Instead of having a number of phone calls that go unanswered,
which is similar to having no one at home when in the door-to-door work,
change the time of day for witnessing when more people are home.
Participate in various forms with ministry.
And you know, ironically, the pandemic, more or less for some of us who were staunch,
door-to-door witnesses, could branch out. We tried phone witnessing, letter writing.
And now we have a variety of preaching activities, and this can keep us more fully engaged and
enthused. And did you notice what the couple in the video said as a goal?
Periodically, they decided in advance to share in the ministry with someone specific.
And then they determined to talk about encouraging subjects when in-between calls, whether in phone
witnessing or in the public ministry. Jehovah values our work in the ministry, regardless of the
response we receive. He reached 610. You familiar with that? Of course you are.
But it does not say Jehovah does not forget the number of return visits you make.
It does not say he does not forget how many Bible studies you conduct.
No, it says he does not forget your work, your effort, and the love you showed for his name.
RZL for the ministry demonstrates that we have a deep love for Jehovah and Jesus.
If like the couple in the video, you detect that your routine of service is becoming, well,
very routine, then fight fire with fire. Maintain that fire is yield. Be ready to share the good news
of peace. Brother Robert Sarenko, a helper of the writing committee, will now present the next
talk of the symposium. Be ready to share the good news of peace. Prepare well.